---
title: Blockchain and web 3.0
createTime: 2025/03/06 16:03:15
permalink: /article/c4tpmvis/
---
## Blockchain and Web 3.0

Web 3.0 has been proposed as a new generation of the Internet, which shifts towards system decentralization, improved data security, and self-sovereign identity. With the proliferation of networked entities, efficient and secure management of identities and their associated data plays a vital role in Web 3.0. Towards this field, we first studied efficient and verifiable data management in decentralized blockchain systems. A new trusted hardware-empowered blockchain paradigm has been developed to support secure data storage and full-fledged analytical data queries with efficiency, verifiability, and privacy guarantees. Based on the study of blockchain, we further explored blockchain-based decentralized identity management for Web 3.0. A novel verifiable decentralized identity management system has been proposed to facilitate efficient storage, retrieval, and verification for identities, relationships, and their associated data in the decentralized blockchain-enabled framework.
The impact of our research will advance decentralized and trustworthy data management and analysis in Blockchain and Web 3.0. Our developed data management technology has been adopted by SF Express, the largest integrated logistics service provider in China and Asia, and the fourth largest in the world, in their blockchain-based supply chain management and finance platform to successfully provide versatile data query services for 700M+ global customers. This technology also received High-Value Case Award by Trusted Blockchain Summit 2019. In addition, our developed decentralized data analysis technology has been integrated into LeaveHomeSafe, a mobile APP developed by HK Government to combat pandemics, benefiting large groups of citizens and the entire society in HK. The research has received the DASFAA Best Paper Award and been shortlisted by Times Higher Education for THE Awards Asia 2021 “Technological or Digital Innovation of the Year”. This research has resulted in 100+ mainstream media reports.